# Voices of Nature
### CRCP 2020 Showcase

As we read in the Ghosts & Monsters, we humans often only realize the importance of and connection between things through extinction and loss. Thus, we really need to pay attention to the connections between things in nature. In this project, we are going to create an instrument that shows how natural, independent systems can affect even human understanding. The purpose of this is to provoke audiences’ thoughts on the relationship between humans and nature. We will do this through a ‘cellular automata,’ created in Processing, which simulates interactions between cells of four elements: water, fire, earth and air. These cells will alter each other to create different visual effects and change which element is in majority. In this we want to show the ecological principle that the four kinds of substances have a relationship of generation and restriction. (This is also referring to the Chinese Wu-xing theory.) For example, if the ‘water’ cells have greater amounts than ‘fire’ cells, the ‘fire’ cells will be diminishing. In SuperCollider, we are creating four different sounds modulations that are triggered by the movements of the four elements in Processing. So that when the visual changes in Processing, the sound would also change. These modulations will affect a voice recording created by the user, altering their speech based on the underlying independent natural systems. This will allow both composition and live performance, with the cellular automata altering the vocals live. However, it could be used by anyone to modulate their speech or song. Our interface is designed to look like a cell phone or tablet, one reason is that it represents how we view nature more and more only through the lens of technology; the other reason is that it has a meaning of when our future generation see this with higher-tech devices, they could also see nature through the lens as we did today.
